Floor to standing desks are seriously niche, but
they basically do what a regular standing desk
can do, and then some. Think of them as
standing desk plus. In the last couple of years,
we've tried and tested what are possibly
the only two real contenders for a full-time
floor to standing desk. And today, we'll pit
them against each other for a showdown of epic
proportions. In one corner, we have the vanguard
of this space, the Lowdesk Pro, formerly known as
Uppeal. And in the opposite corner, we have the
new challenger, the Flow Desk from marinamantra.
Lowdesk versus Flow Desk. Who will come out
on top in this contest? Let the battle begin.
First, let's consider design from an aesthetic
point of view. The Lowdesk Pro looks familiar
and recognizable. It's close to how you
would imagine a standing desk to look like.
There's a bit of that practical, heavy
machinery aesthetic to it. It doesn't offend,
but it doesn't stand out either. Obviously,
looks are subjective, but in our opinion,
the Flow Desk has a visually more refined and
cohesive design. There are less hard edges,
and the wooden tabletop paired with gray felt
covers give it more of a warm and considered vibe.
Now that said, this cohesive design comes at a
small cost. At the moment, the Flow Desk
is not customizable. It comes in one size, two
different colors, and you can't just order the
legs and slap your own tabletop
on it. With the Lowdesk Pro, you could.
If you don't like their tabletop options
from laminated tabletops to bamboo and wood,
then just get the legs and complete
the desk with your own. In fact, if you're
outside of the US, you might just have to do that.
Because, as of the last update we heard, Lowdesk no
longer ships tabletops internationally. So, that
could be a pro or a con depending on your needs.
When it comes to extras, though, the Flow Desk
fights back. The gray felt covers hide cables,
and there's also a built-in tray at the
back to manage power strips and additional cables.
Although it's not the most spacious and
could be a bit of a tight fit if you have bulkier
power bricks. With the Lowdesk Pro, we had
to purchase and install our own cable tray.
We didn't spend too much time organizing the
cables perfectly, which is why we usually try
to avoid filming the underside of the desk.
We don't have to do that with the Flow Desk.
So, if you're obsessed with having immaculate
cable management, then you'll most certainly
be happier looking at the underside of the Flow
Desk compared to the Lowdesk Pro. One of the main
inconvenience of the X-frame style legs of the
Flow Desk is that there's less leg room
compared to traditional straight column legs.
This is especially true when the desk is at the
lower settings and you won't be able to stretch
or straighten out your legs in front of you.
You won't have the issue with the Lowdesk
Pro. So if you like to sit with outstretched legs,
then this is definitely something to consider.
However, the X-frame style legs is what allows
the Flow Desk to go lower than the Lowdesk Pro,
which is important if your primary objective is to
use it as a floor desk. Both of these options
have a similar amount of travel. We measured
82 cm with the Flow Desk and 80 cm with the Lowdesk Pro. While it may just be a 2 cm difference,
the Flow Desk can actually go 5 cm lower than
the Lowdesk Pro. If you're of average height,
this could be the difference between the desk
being usable or not usable without a floor seat.
In our case, the Flow Desk is borderline
usable for us without a floor seat, whereas we
wouldn't want to use the Lowdesk Pro
without one. It is rare for us to sit at our desk
without an elevated floor cushion, so this is not
a deal breaker, but a lower minimum height is
nice to have and could be the difference
maker for some. If what you're more concerned
about is speed, then you may want to know that the
Lowdesk Pro is quite a bit faster than the Flow
Desk. On top of moving vertically, the legs on the
Flow Desk move laterally as well, so some speed is
lost there. Here you can see a comparison of the
two desks moving the same travel distance with
a lighter setup on the Flow Desk, no less, but
still, it's about 35% slower than the Lowdesk Pro.
Frankly speaking, we've never been bothered by
how long it takes either of these desks to go
up and down. But we can understand how some people
may not want or have the patience to wait for that
extra few seconds whenever adjusting the
desk. But with speed comes noise. The Lowdesk Pro
did surprise us a little with the motor noise the
first time we used it. It's not obnoxiously loud,
but because we were trying a standing desk
in a quiet environment for the first time,
the noise was something that stood up. It doesn't
bother us in subsequent day-to-day use, it's just
something we observed. The Flow Desk, on the other
hand, also surprised us in the noise department,
but in a completely different way. It is super
quiet. At the bottom of his operational height,
the desk is practically silent. When our fans
are running and there are cars going by outside,
we can barely hear the desk moving. As it
enters the upper half of its operational range,
the volume gets a tiny bit louder, but you
have to be paying attention to hear it.
So, the Flow Desk sounds as gentle and refined
as it looks. When it comes to stability,
it may not be a huge difference, but the
difference is there. The Lowdesk Pro feels slightly
more stable throughout its entire operating range.
It's rock solid at lower settings, and as
it gets higher, it understandably loses some of
that stability. The Flow Desk actually feels like
it maintains it stability a bit better going
from floor desk to standing desk. The issue is
it's already not as rock solid starting from the
lower settings compared to the Lowesk Pro, which
makes us wonder if any instability we experienced
with the Flow Desk might have something to do with
the lack of micro adjustments on the desk feet
to negate the effects of uneven floors.
So, a bit of a wasted opportunity. Still, both
desks are stable enough for what we use them for,
but we have to give the edge to the Lowdesk Pro.
And lastly, let's compare price and availability.
As of this video, the Flow Desk is priced at
USD 1049, while the Lowdesk Pro starts at USD 1300
with a laminate tabletop, USD 1400 with a bamboo
tabletop, and up to USD 1900 for one with a wooden
tabletop. In short, the Flow Desk is
the more affordable option. Both offer free
shipping for customers in the US. And as of the
last update we received, marinamantra doesn't
ship internationally, while Lowdesk does, at least
for the desk legs, although international shipping
could be quite costly. Ultimately, there isn't
a clear winner in this contest. The question is,
what do you value more? The Flow Desk subjectively
looks nicer, and has a couple more thoughtful
design elements and useful accessories. It
goes lower and has a tiny bit more range.
It's much quieter, and is also more affordable.
The Lowdesk Pro is more customizable. You can get
just the desk legs if you want. There is
more leg room, it's faster, and it feels slightly
more stable. If you're looking for a floor
to standing desk, either of these could work,
but depending on your specific needs, you may want
to pick one over the other. What we've covered are
the key differences between the two desks, but
we also have a written article which we'll keep
updating along the way with additional information
we may have missed in this video. So check that
out if you like and tell us, which of these two
floor to standing desks would you choose.